3 HABITS TO KEEP FOR ANTI-AGING 
Ever wondered what is the secret to aging well? All of us desire to look young, feel young and fit, especially as we get older. Is anti-aging really possible? Is it the gift of genetics or is there a set formula? What we call anti-aging today, the wise yogis have been practicing for centuries. Yoga helps in self-preservation of the body and the mind with the help of postures, breathing techniques and the correct understanding of eating and resting. Let us look at the top 3 habits that can keep you looking and feeling younger for a long time. 
EAT CLEVERLY. The right food can fuel you the right way and increase your longevity. Understand what to eat from a young age. Right Food gives you energy, nutrition, good sleep, good hair, a glowing skin and healthy nails. If your choice of food is wrong then it immediately shows in your health and energy and face. Avoid processed food completely if you can. Keep a good intake of water. Give your digestive system a good cleanse at least once a year. Your food too requires clear planning for a good result. Take professional help if you don’t know where to begin. 
EXERCISE MODERATELY. You heard right! Though exercise helps in anti-aging by keeping the shape, size and elasticity of the body, over exercising does the exact opposite. It not only stresses the body, it also makes muscles tired and overworked. Tired muscles can make a person look older and haggard. In planning your exercise, you must choose what is rightly suited for your body – keep in mind the duration and intensity. Include a restorative exercise routine at least 2 times a week. Include a good breathing technique as a daily routine after exercises to boost your body with oxygen and rejuvenate your cells. 
UNWIND EVERYDAY. The one big secret to aging well is happiness! A relaxed mind, good rest for the body, deep sleep, and hobbies or things that you like doing must be done daily. Unwinding must be a daily ritual when your day ends. Just like we plan the start of day we need a good wind down, be it a hot bath, listening to music, sipping on something warm and relaxing… a happy and relaxed mind can preserve your youth!


5 COMMON MISTAKES PEOPLE MAKE WHEN TRYING TO LOSE WEIGHT!
There is so much advice on what to do to lose weight but it is equally important to know where you can go wrong as well. If you are on your weight-loss journey keep these factors in mind, so you have a successful result.
1. STRESSING OUT ABOUT YOUR WEIGHT 
Many factors affect our body weight - the bone weight, fluid fluctuation, inflammations, the amount of food and fluid consumed and how much is actually eliminated by the body. 
Without a proper understanding of this and only looking at the number on the weighing scale can cause stress for your body and mind. Stress affects the metabolism and slows down the weight-loss process. 
2. NOT CHOOSING THE RIGHT EXERCISE FOR YOUR BODY
First understand your body. If you have any chronic injuries, if you enjoy high or low intensity exercises or if your stress levels are high, then look for activities that can help you unwind and relax. 
When you choose an activity that you like the chances that you will continue it are more. Remember, consistency and discipline results in good weight-loss. 
3. MAKING WRONG FOOD CHOICES
Remember, food is one constant thing we are putting into our bodies. Imagine the problems caused when putting the wrong foods consistently into the body.
Step back a bit, see what foods suit you - avoid processed food, eat fresh unprocessed food, drink water through the day as it constantly refreshes the body and rids it of toxins. 
4. NOT EATING ENOUGH PROTEIN AND FIBRE 
Proteins fuel our muscles. Strong muscles can give you the much needed energy to exercise and lose the excess weight. Fibre on the other hand helps the GUT to digest food better and eliminate it out of the body. 
5. EATING WHEN YOU ARE NOT HUNGRY 
Many of us eat out of habit, eat according to the time and not out of hunger. Become aware of this pattern. The body will tell you when it is hungry. Wait for the signals and eat according to the body’s need. If we develop mindful eating habits then weight-loss becomes effective.

6 WAYS TO BOOST YOUR HORMONE HEALTH for SUSTAINABLE WEIGHT-LOSS!
Have you ever wondered why you follow the same system as another to lose weight, yet there is a difference in the result? The answer lies in your hormones! 
Hormones work through the brain to control body weight and blood sugar levels which in turn affects the metabolism and appetite.
To ensure good health of hormones there are a few things we must take care of as far as our lifestyle: 
1. EXERCISE EVERYDAY
Exercising regularly strengthens and regulates the hypothalamus which is an integral part of our brain. It controls our hormones and sends signals to release the right hormones at the right time in the body which regulates the metabolism, improves the body’s insulin resistance, reduces leptin levels, absorbs and digests food better, maintaining a healthy weight. 
2. EAT MORE PROTEINS 
Proteins are the building blocks for hormones along with peptides. When proteins are deficient hormones do not function correctly. Also, proteins take more energy from the body to burn out, which also helps weight-loss.
3. INCLUDE GOOD FATS IN YOUR DIET
Remember, FAT burns FAT. It gives ample energy to the body which in turn can give energy for exercise. Fat powers the brain to function with alertness, provides satiety in a meal and can stop you from overeating. 
4. TAKE CARE of YOUR GUT HEALTH
A healthy microbiome and gut bacteria help in digestion and absorption of food, thus helping absorption of nutrients which optimise all body functions, including weight-loss. 
5. KEEP LOW YOUR STRESS LEVEL AND SUGAR INTAKE
Stress levels, sugar intake and weight-loss are all interconnected. When in stress, the body releases glucose into the blood stream, the insulin levels drop and the adrenaline is increased to cope up with the situation. 
To top this up, when our diet is not healthy or is rich in sugar and processed food, the insulin levels further drop. This cycle on a daily basis leads to insulin resistance which makes weight-loss difficult. 
6. IMPROVE THE QUALITY of YOUR SLEEP
It is a well-researched fact that people with poor sleeping habits do not lose weight easily. The sleep hormone also controls our appetite. When the body is sleep-deprived the body by default preserves energy and limits fat-burn. The hunger increases and the body craves for more food leading to a weight gain.


5 REASONS why WEIGHT-LOSS MUST BEGIN IN THE MIND 
If you want to lose weight, if you’re trying to lose weight and have not seen any results yet, it’s purely because you have not addressed the root cause. FIX the root cause, with small goals and habits, a positive lets-do-it attitude and then the results WILL come.
Weight-loss is a journey that requires understanding of self, planning the way ahead, sticking to routines and achieving your goal. The bottom line is to set the mindset first – and the body will follow. 
Follow these simple steps, DON’T GIVE UP and you will ACHIEVE your goal! 
1. FIRST UNDERSTAND THE CAUSE OF WEIGHT GAIN
There are many factors which contribute to weight gain. Check your stress levels, if your mental or emotional stress is high, the tendency to look out for comfort foods is high. Stress increases cortisol and comfort food increases the insulin in the blood. The combination of this is one of the causes for weight gain. Hormonal imbalances, sheer laziness to cook and exercise, lack of good sleep all cause weight gain. Also another reason can be plain genetics. Either ways this understanding is the first step to transformation.
2. MAP YOUR HABITS, CHANGE THEM & DEVELOP A SENSE OF SELF-AWARENESS
Develop a mental awareness of your habits. Become aware of your eating patterns – how much you eat, the time of the day you eat. Maintain a journal for a few days to map this. Become aware of your movements, whether you are sedentary for more hours in the day or you are moving around. How committed are you to exercise? How much importance you give to sleep? Sleep deprivation causes low energy which in turn makes you reach out to high calorie foods for energy – this LOOP of tiredness and overeating needs to be broken.
3. PLAN WHERE YOU NEED TO BEGIN - CLARITY WILL TAKE YOU A LONG WAY
Make a clear written plan. Take some time out to sit and plan your day, make time for exercise, plan your meals for the day, set reminders to keep sipping on water regularly and do an activity to unwind before you go to sleep. Remember clarity and discipline WILL take you to the end-result. 
4. SET IN YOUR MIND SIMPLE, SMALL & ACHIEVABLE GOALS
Be realistic in your approach to weight-loss. Set smaller targets which are achievable. Be real about the time it will take to shed off those extra kilos. Weight-loss must be gradual and sustainable.
Remember that you must get fitter along with losing the weight and must not experience tiredness and weakness in the journey. The body goes through many changes in the transformation process. Get professional help advice if you feel stuck and you do not know how to move forward. 
5. INCREASE YOUR SELF-BELIEF & STAY MOTIVATED
A positive attitude goes a long way in achieving your weight-loss goal. Self-belief and confidence is key. When you gain weight, it also hits your confidence and make you unsure about many tasks. Adapting to a new body requires self-acceptance and mental strength. 
Also, surround yourself with like-minded people who can motivate you to keep moving, join a class, find an activity you like and are ready to do without breaking that commitment.



THREE REASONS TO SMILE FOR NO REASON AT ALL!
The truths of life are many times paradoxical. Like the chicken and the egg, no one quite knows which one comes first. The same is with happiness. We all know that a happy person smiles naturally. But is it possible to create happiness by smiling ? Let’s explore…

1. BOOSTS HAPPY HORMONES!
A genuine smile has a multi fold effect on the human system. There is an instant rush of so called ‘happy hormones’ dopamine, endorphins and serotonin, when a smile adorns the face. These neurotransmitters relax the entire body, lower the heart rate and act as natural anti-depressants or mood lifters to further lower the stress levels. 

2. BRINGS YOU TO THE PRESENT!
Yogis say a smile brings you to the ‘now’ immediately and revives your awareness of the moment. The breath becomes calmer, the mind steadier and the heart feels a wave of joy. A smile is nothing but a gesture (of the body), an expression of delight. By practicing this gesture generously everyday, an attitude of joy can be cultivated.

3. THE ULTIMATE MUDRA
A mudra is understood as a ‘lock’ or ‘gesture’ in yoga. These locks or gestures are practiced using the hands, sense organs, head, perineum or the whole body. Mudras help gain mastery over the involuntary processes in the physical body, pierce the knots or blockages and direct the flow of ‘prana’ or vital ‘life force’ in the subtle body and help cultivate a conducive attitude for meditation. Hence mudras are also described as psychic, emotional, devotional and aesthetic gestures or attitudes. Ancients say smile is the gentlest of all mudras. Let’s smile and delight in the radiance of our being - for no reason at all!






